SUMMARY: Change ‘n Clean Your Ride Clinic is a part-time business opportunity started by two high school friends (Josh and Niles), who seized upon an opportunity to offer interior car detailing and "on rim" snow tire changes. The business has grown primarily by "word of mouth" especially during the COVID-19 pandemic. More recently, a major firm has shown an interest. *** One Saturday morning in November 2019, Josh and Niles were putting on "on rim" snow tires and cleaning their respective vehicles in Josh’s parent’s driveway in Gatineau, Québec. The job did not take them very long. Right after they were done, a next-door neighbour approached them and asked how much they would charge to put "on rim" snow tires - which were stored in the neighbour’s garage -- on the two vehicles parked in the neighbour’s driveway. The neighbor was not only pleased at the $70.00/vehicle asking price but also surprised the two cleaned the interior of the cars as a bonus. Josh and Niles earned an additional $100.00 tip for their efforts. This first opportunity was very exciting. Since their last year in high school, in 2017, Josh and Niles have been discussing starting a business together but could not come up with a suitable opportunity. Word spread quickly throughout the neighborhood that fall and Change ‘n Clean Your Ride Clinic was suddenly in business. Based on advice from his parents, Josh did a name search and registered the business with the Ontario government as a sole proprietorship as he understood that it was the least costly and simplest approach. The two then decided informally that they were equal partners and would share the revenues and expenses evenly. In other words, right after each job, whatever they were paid they would split evenly. They also shared all business costs 50/50. That fall Josh and Niles were very busy. They also quickly discovered that a key benefit of their tire change and interior detailing service was that it is mobile. Unlike other establishments that changed winter tires and offered interior detailing, they went to the client’s location to perform     Page 2 of 5 the services rather than the client having to bring their cars to them. For Change ‘n Clean this meant that they did not have to set up a physical location, which would have been costly. Their only investment was in tire changing tools for "on rim" tires (in the event that the client did not have their own), an industrial vacuum cleaner, and cleaning products and materials. The onset of the COVID-19 pandemic and subsequent lockdowns which started in March 2020, brought an unexpected opportunity for their business. While other companies were dealing with closures and restrictions, Change ‘n Clean as a mobile service was suddenly very appealing to clients wanting to remove their snow tires and have the interior of their cars cleaned of the dirt and grime that accumulated during the winter season. Changing over to snow tires for the winter months is not mandatory in the Province of Ontario. However, it is the law in Québec. Nonetheless many car owners on the Ontario side of the Ottawa-Gatineau region choose to change their tires for safety and insurance reasons. Therefore, it comes as no surprise that the winter tire changeover is big business for all automobile service and maintenance establishments in the region. Appointments fill up very quickly starting the month of October to early December, then again from late March to the end of April. By the fall of 2020, Josh now a 2nd year Information Technology Engineering student at Carleton University, had set up a website with a calendar allowing clients to book their appointments and whether they required the tire change service, or car detailing or both. He then placed an ad on a major local classified advertising website featuring the company name and its services, along with a QR code. Once readers scanned the code, they are taken to Change ‘n Clean’s website where they view a short video clip featuring Josh and Niles who informed them that they did not have to deal with the inconvenience and hassles of taking their cars to an auto shop or detailing establishment during the continuing lockdown. Here is the excerpt from an earlier video on the Change ‘n Clean website: "Hey...I’m Josh...and...I’m Niles...We are your friendly Change ‘n Clean team...With COVID-19 lockdowns and social distancing are you really planning to visit an auto shop this spring for your snow tire changeover? Check us out...we will visit you, wherever you live in Ottawa- Gatineau...We will change your tires (sorry...on rim only) and clean the interior of your vehicle right there in your driveway or parking garage...Convenient and hassle free...     Page 3 of 5 What...you say you don’t store your tires at home...no worries...for a fee, we will go get your tires wherever you store them in Ottawa-Gatineau, bring them back to your location, do the changeover...and we will even put the removed tires back in storage for you...Now how convenient is that...So...Book now! When booking, customers are required to indicate the type of vehicle and, in the case of tire changeovers, indicate whether the tires are with the client or stored elsewhere. They can then opt for Change ‘n Clean’s retrieval service. This service, however, is restricted to the Ottawa- Gatineau area. Table 1.0 is a summary of Change ‘n Clean’s services and prices: Table 1.0: Price List Type of Vehicle On Rim Tire Changes Interior Detailing Small Car $40.00 $70.00 SUV $60.00 $90.00 Van and Light Truck $80.00 $110.00 Larger Vehicle $100.00 or more depending on the vehicle $130.00 or more depending on the vehicle Tire Retrieval and Return Service anywhere in the Ottawa-Gatineau Area: $60.00 or more depending on distance. The online calendar also permitted Josh and Niles to limit client bookings to times when they were both available. They also believed that having a calendar with limited availability made Change ‘n Clean appear busier that they actually were, and as a result more attractive to potential clients. In addition to the website Josh had business cards and T-Shirts made. Both featured not only the name of the business but also the QR code. After graduating from high school, Niles (who has dual Canadian and United States citizenship), went to live with his mother in Washington DC. There he attended and graduated in 2018 from Lincoln Tech Auto Mechanic School in Columbia, Maryland. After graduating, he decided to return to Canada to live with his dad. He was soon hired as a mechanic for a premier auto dealership in Ottawa. His technical competence, along with his ability to work well with the other mechanics resulted in him being promoted after just a few months to the position of service advisor at the dealership. Although he liked the pay increase and added benefits, Niles did not find the job particularly satisfying. He was becoming increasingly frustrated with the endless customer complaints and demands. Niles realized that he preferred to work on cars, not resolve customer and deal with administrative issues. This business opportunity with Josh was, in Niles’ opinion, a great start even though it only involved changing tires and detailing at the moment. Niles was hopeful that he would get the opportunity to offer additional auto repair services as Change ‘n Clean’s services and customer base grew.     Page 4 of 5 Over the last two years Change ‘n Clean has proved to be a busy venture for the two. They offered primarily tire changes in the fall and spring and switch their focus exclusively to detailing the rest of the time. They scheduled between two to three clients per day, three days a week during the fall and winter and four to five customers per day, six days a week during the summer months. Now that Josh is about to graduate from university, and Niles was growing increasingly more dissatisfied with his job as a service advisor, they started to discuss how to grow this part time business. Both Josh and Niles had some funds to contribute to the venture. Josh managed to save $5,000.00 working at a part time job as a cable installer. Niles had saved $8,000 from his job at the dealership. Both, however, were not sure how much Change ‘n Clean operations contributed to their respective bank accounts. There are a number of small independent business that offer mobile tire change services in the Ottawa-Gatineau area. In 2013 the Ottawa Citizen1 ran an article about three such operators: Tire Changer; 2) Mobile Change and 3) Go Tire. Some offer both tire change and car detailing services. Regarding the later, the auto wash and detailing market is estimated to be $ 1.2 billion in Canada for 20222. There are three types of detailing services3: 1) Mobile; 2) Temporary location; and 3) Fixed site. Recently, one of Change ‘n Clean regular customers introduced Josh and Niles to a family member who is the owner of Upscale Auto Resales Incorporated (UAR Inc.), a privately incorporated "pre-owned" car and truck dealership in Ottawa and Gatineau. UAR Inc. specializes in international vehicles considered "luxury" and "high end", as well as other classic and antique, vintage vehicles. Its client base includes wealthy customers from across Canada, with a few clients in the United States and overseas. In 2021 the company had a net income of $50 million. It currently employs eighty employees. The owner and Chair of the Board of UAR Inc., Sage L’Argent, was impressed with the quality of their work and their high customer satisfaction and growing reputation. She therefore became interested in bringing Change ‘n Clean on board to develop a mobile tire change and detailing service capacity for UAR Inc. 1 Turner, K. (2013). Mobile tire-changing companies bring the garage to your door: The ultimate convenience, three Ottawa companies will come to your home or workplace to change over your tires. The Ottawa Citizen. Publishing date: Nov 20, 2013: https://ottawacitizen.com/life/real%20deal/mobile-tire-changing-companies-bring- the-garage-to-your-door 2 IBIS World: https://www.ibisworld.com/canada/market-size/car-wash-auto-detailing/ 3 Guide to Detailing Website: https://guidetodetailing.com/detailing-tools-guides/detailing-for-profit/     Page 5 of 5 As a result, UAR Inc. made the following offer to Change ‘n Clean: UAR Inc. would take a 51% stake in the ownership of Change ‘n Clean with 49% going to Josh and Niles. In addition, Change ‘n Clean would include in its name, that it is now a division of UAR Inc. Moreover, UAR Inc. would also be entitled to 9% of the gross revenues earned by Change ‘n Clean. In exchange, all administrative functions such as invoicing, collections, purchasing, finance and accounting etc., would be handled by UAR Inc. Change ‘n Clean would also benefit from the purchasing power and supplier networks of UAR Inc. for all of its equipment and supplies. In addition, the Change ‘n Clean website would be migrated to the UAR Inc. website and Josh and Niles will have access to UAR Inc.’s Information technology, operations, sales and marketing resources. Sage L’Argent also assured Josh and Niles that they would continue to run Change ‘n Clean independently with no interference from UAR Inc. Figure 1.0 shows the proposed new UAR Inc. organizational chart, which includes Change ‘n Clean. Figure 1.0 UAR Inc. Proposed Organizational Chart Given their interest in growing Change ‘n Clean and now this offer from UAR Inc., Josh and Niles are not sure what to do next. . END OF CASE © 2022. All rights reserved TASK: You are a Business Management Consultant. Prepare a formal report for Josh and Niles on the current state of the business. The report must also recommend next steps. Disclaimer: This is a new case. If you notice any spelling/grammatical/editing error, please inform me